---
layout: post
title: "The joy of rebasing"
---

Yesterday I said that "all I needed to do" to my PR for configuring
a PGD-S cluster was to rebase and squash it, as if that would only take
five minutes. It did not only take five minutes.

Rebasing and squashing (or editing) commits is a wonderfully flexible
thing to be able to do but so so easy to get wrong. For this PR I had
to reorder commits to squash them together, so the first task is to
get the correct sequence - and if you realise you got it wrong, of
course you have to start again. But I got far enough that I didn't want
to throw away my established state, with intermediate commit messsages
and all, but realised I was squashing together commits I wanted to keep
separate. I had a somewhat frustrating discussion with Gemini -
frustrating for both of us, I think - and ended up learning interesting
new things about adding selected changes to a commit using "git add -p",
and the existence of "git restore --staged". Eventually that PR was
pushed in what should be its final state.

This afternoon we had a long call planning the work we'll be doing
over the next few weeks. I haven't had much assigned to me, because of
the uncertainty about how long my work on PGD5 to PGD6 upgrades will
take, although there are plenty of smallish items which need to get
done by *someone*. I'm quite hopeful of actually getting on or two
of those done myself, if that's the way things turn out, but the
upgrade work is my priority.

I finished the day with yet more rebasing - I have had a PR sitting
open for some time which removes code related to our old repositories
that are no longer accessible. That needed one change for a bug that
was spotted by Jonathan in his review, so I made that change,
rebased to incorporate it into a larger commit, and pushed the final
version of the PR. So I have two PRs now waiting for reviews which I'm
almost sure will be straight approvals, and I hope I'll have two
merged PRs to report tomorrow.
